.TH COPYRAT 1 "2026-05-13" "copyrat 0.9.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
copyrat \- highlight and copy pattern-matched text from stdin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I command
|
.B copyrat
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B copyrat
is the standalone counterpart to
.BR tmux-copyrat (1).
It reads text from stdin, displays a full-screen hint overlay for
pattern-matched spans, and writes the selected text to stdout.
No tmux dependency.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Pattern Selection
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-all\-patterns
Use all available regex patterns.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-pattern\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Named pattern to match. Repeatable.
See
.B PATTERNS
in
.BR tmux-copyrat (1).
.TP
.BR \-X ", " \-\-custom\-patterns " " \fIREGEX\fR
Custom regex pattern (must contain a capture group). Repeatable.
.SS Hint Generation
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-alphabet " " \fILAYOUT\fR
Hint character set.
Format:
.IR LAYOUT [\- MODIFIER ]
where
.I LAYOUT
is one of
.BR qwerty ", " azerty ", " qwertz ", " dvorak ", " colemak
and optional
.I MODIFIER
is one of
.BR homerow ", " left\-hand ", " right\-hand .
Default:
.BR dvorak .
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reverse
Assign hints starting from the bottom of the screen.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-unique\-hint
Assign the same hint to identical text spans.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-focus\-wrap\-around
Wrap focus navigation at first/last span.
.SS Hint Appearance
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-hint\-style " " \fISTYLE\fR
Hint styling:
.BR bold ", " italic ", " underline ", or " surround .
If omitted, only hint colors are used.
.TP
.BI \-\-hint\-alignment " ALIGN"
Hint position relative to span:
.BR leading " (default), " center ", or " trailing .
.TP
.BI \-\-hint\-surroundings " CHARS"
Two characters used with surround style.
Default:
.BR {} .
.SS Output
.TP
.BI \-\-default\-output " DEST"
Default output destination:
.BR tmux " (default) or " clipboard .
Togglable at runtime with
.BR Space .
.SS Multi-Select
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-multi\-select
Enable multi-select mode.
Hints toggle span selection; confirm with
.B Enter
or
.BR y .
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-separator " " \fISTR\fR
Separator for joining multi-selected texts.
Default: a single space.
.SS Colors
All color flags accept a color name or
.B none
for the terminal default.
Color names:
.BR black ", " red ", " green ", " yellow ", " blue ", " magenta ", "
.BR cyan ", " white ,
and bright variants
.RB ( bright\-red ", " bright\-cyan ", etc.)."
.TP
.BI \-\-text\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-text\-bg " COLOR"
Base text colors.
Defaults:
.BR bright\-cyan ", " none .
.TP
.BI \-\-span\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-span\-bg " COLOR"
Matched span colors.
Defaults:
.BR blue ", " none .
.TP
.BI \-\-focused\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-focused\-bg " COLOR"
Focused match colors.
Defaults:
.BR magenta ", " none .
.TP
.BI \-\-selected\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-selected\-bg " COLOR"
Selected match colors (multi-select mode).
Defaults:
.BR green ", " none .
.TP
.BI \-\-hint\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-hint\-bg " COLOR"
Hint character colors.
Defaults:
.BR yellow ", " none .
.SH EXAMPLES
Search git log for SHAs and datetimes, copy selection to clipboard:
.PP
.RS
.nf
git log | copyrat -r -u -x sha -x datetime | pbcopy
.fi
.RE
.PP
Multi-select IPv4 addresses and emails:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cat server.log | copyrat -A -m
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a custom regex to match MAC addresses:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ip link | copyrat -X '([a-f0-9]{2}(:[a-f0-9]{2}){5})'
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
A span was selected and printed to stdout.
.TP
.B 1
No selection was made (user pressed Esc or no matches found).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux-copyrat (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR fzf (1)
.SH AUTHORS
graelo <https://github.com/graelo/tmux-copyrat>
