.TH TMUX-COPYRAT 1 "2026-05-13" "tmux-copyrat 0.9.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tmux-copyrat \- highlight and copy pattern-matched text from tmux panes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmux-copyrat init
.br
.B tmux-copyrat run
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmux-copyrat
is a tmux plugin that scans the active pane for text matching named patterns
(URLs, IPs, SHAs, paths, etc.), overlays single or double character hints on
each match, and copies the selected span to the tmux buffer or system
clipboard.
.PP
The
.B init
subcommand prints the tmux plugin script to stdout.
The
.B run
subcommand captures the active pane, displays the hint overlay, and
handles user selection.
.PP
In normal use,
.B tmux-copyrat
is invoked by the plugin script via tmux key bindings, not directly by the
user.
See the
.B DEFAULT KEY BINDINGS
section below.
.SH OPTIONS
Options for the
.B run
subcommand.
All options can also be set via
.BI @copyrat- *
tmux options (see
.BR CONFIGURATION ).
.SS Tmux Integration
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-ignore\-tmux\-options
Don't read
.BI @copyrat- *
options from tmux.
.TP
.BR \-W ", " \-\-window\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Name of the temporary tmux window.
Default:
.BR [copyrat] .
.TP
.BI \-\-capture\-region " REGION"
Capture region:
.BR visible\-area " (default) or " entire\-history .
.TP
.BI \-\-clipboard\-exe " CMD"
Clipboard command.
Default:
.B pbcopy
(macOS),
.B wl\-copy
(Wayland),
.B "xclip \-selection clipboard"
(X11).
.SS Pattern Selection
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-all\-patterns
Use all available regex patterns.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-pattern\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Named pattern to match. Repeatable.
See
.B PATTERNS
below.
.TP
.BR \-X ", " \-\-custom\-patterns " " \fIREGEX\fR
Custom regex pattern (must contain a capture group). Repeatable.
.SS Hint Generation
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-alphabet " " \fILAYOUT\fR
Hint character set.
Format:
.IR LAYOUT [\- MODIFIER ]
where
.I LAYOUT
is one of
.BR qwerty ", " azerty ", " qwertz ", " dvorak ", " colemak
and optional
.I MODIFIER
is one of
.BR homerow ", " left\-hand ", " right\-hand .
Default:
.BR dvorak .
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reverse
Assign hints starting from the bottom of the screen.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-unique\-hint
Assign the same hint to identical text spans.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-focus\-wrap\-around
Wrap focus navigation at first/last span.
.SS Hint Appearance
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-hint\-style " " \fISTYLE\fR
Hint styling:
.BR bold ", " italic ", " underline ", or " surround .
If omitted, only hint colors are used.
.TP
.BI \-\-hint\-alignment " ALIGN"
Hint position relative to span:
.BR leading " (default), " center ", or " trailing .
.TP
.BI \-\-hint\-surroundings " CHARS"
Two characters used with surround style.
Default:
.BR {} .
.SS Output
.TP
.BI \-\-default\-output " DEST"
Default output destination:
.BR tmux " (default) or " clipboard .
Togglable at runtime with
.BR Space .
.SS Multi-Select
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-multi\-select
Enable multi-select mode.
Hints toggle span selection; confirm with
.B Enter
or
.BR y .
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-separator " " \fISTR\fR
Separator for joining multi-selected texts.
Default: a single space.
.SS Colors
All color flags accept a color name or
.B none
for the terminal default.
Color names:
.BR black ", " red ", " green ", " yellow ", " blue ", " magenta ", "
.BR cyan ", " white ,
and bright variants
.RB ( bright\-red ", " bright\-cyan ", etc.)."
.TP
.BI \-\-text\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-text\-bg " COLOR"
Base text colors.
Defaults:
.BR bright\-cyan ", " none .
.TP
.BI \-\-span\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-span\-bg " COLOR"
Matched span colors.
Defaults:
.BR blue ", " none .
.TP
.BI \-\-focused\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-focused\-bg " COLOR"
Focused match colors.
Defaults:
.BR magenta ", " none .
.TP
.BI \-\-selected\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-selected\-bg " COLOR"
Selected match colors (multi-select mode).
Defaults:
.BR green ", " none .
.TP
.BI \-\-hint\-fg " COLOR\fR, " \-\-hint\-bg " COLOR"
Hint character colors.
Defaults:
.BR yellow ", " none .
.SH DEFAULT KEY BINDINGS
The plugin script creates bindings under two keyswitches
(configurable via
.B @copyrat\-keyswitch
and
.BR @copyrat\-keyswitch\-history ):
.PP
.RS
.B prefix + t + \fIkey\fR
\(em search visible area
.br
.B prefix + T + \fIkey\fR
\(em search entire scrollback
.RE
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lb lb
l l.
Key;Pattern
a;command-line args
c;hex color codes
d;dates / datetimes
D;Docker/Podman IDs
e;email addresses
G;4+ digit strings
h;SHA-1/2 hashes
m;markdown URLs
p;file paths
P;pointer addresses
q;quoted strings (single/double/backtick)
u;URLs
U;UUIDs
v;version numbers
4;IPv4 addresses
6;IPv6 addresses
Space;all patterns
/;custom regex (prompted)
.TE
.SH RUNTIME CONTROLS
.TS
tab(;);
lb lb
l l.
Key;Action
\fIhint chars\fR;copy span and exit
\fICAPS hint\fR;copy to system clipboard
n / N;next / previous span
y;yank focused span (tmux buffer)
Y;yank focused span (clipboard)
Space;toggle output destination
Esc;cancel
.TE
.PP
In multi-select mode, additionally:
.TS
tab(;);
lb lb
l l.
Key;Action
\fIhint chars\fR;toggle span selection
Tab;toggle focused span
Enter / y;confirm selection (tmux buffer)
Y;confirm selection (clipboard)
.TE
.SH PATTERNS
.TS
tab(;);
lb lb
l l.
Name;Description
command\-line\-args;command line argument values
datetime;dates and datetimes
diff\-a;diff --- a/path headers
diff\-b;diff +++ b/path headers
digits;strings of 4+ digits
docker;Docker/Podman SHA256 IDs
email;email addresses
hexcolor;hex color codes (#rrggbb)
ipfs;IPFS CIDs (Qm...)
ipv4;IPv4 addresses
ipv6;IPv6 addresses
markdown\-url;markdown link URLs
path;absolute and relative file paths
pointer\-address;hex pointer addresses (0x...)
quoted\-backtick;backtick-quoted strings
quoted\-double;double-quoted strings
quoted\-single;single-quoted strings
sha;SHA-1/2 hashes (7\(en40 hex chars)
url;HTTP, git, ssh, s3, ftp, file URLs
uuid;UUIDs
version;version numbers (v1.2.3\-beta)
.TE
.SH CONFIGURATION
All CLI flags have corresponding
.BI @copyrat\- *
tmux options.
Set them in
.B ~/.tmux.conf
with
.BR "set \-g" .
See
.I CONFIGURATION.md
in the project repository for full details.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.tmux/plugins/tmux-copyrat/
Default plugin installation directory (TPM).
.TP
.I ~/.tmux.conf
Tmux configuration file for setting
.BI @copyrat\- *
options.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
A span was selected and copied.
.TP
.B 1
No selection was made (user pressed Esc or no matches found).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR copyrat (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR pbcopy (1)
.SH AUTHORS
graelo <https://github.com/graelo/tmux-copyrat>
